# Topics for today (and potential finals questions)

* Smart pointers
* templates
* dengling pointers
* deep copy

## Dangling pointer

Two pointers point to the same peice of data. Pointer A is used to delete the object. Pointer B doesn't know that so it is now pointing to invalid data.

Deep copy helps to solve some of that problem

## Deep copy

Assume you have an object instance, Person 1. Person 1 has a name which is a pointer to a string "Tom". If you want to make a copy, you can make a shallow copy. A Shallow copy creates a new instance which shares pointers with the old instance. For example, the Name member of the new instance isn't actually copied, it simply points to the same place that the old instance's name member points to.

In a deep copy, you completely clone all of the data. So the string "Tom" from the first instance is copied, as opposed to just the pointer being copied.

## Smart Pointers

    class Person
    {
        int age;
        char* pName;
        
    public:
        Person(): age(0), pName(0) {}
        Person(char* p, int a): age(a), pName(p) {}
        ~Person(){}
        void display()
        {
            printf("Name = %s, Age = %d\n",pName,age);
        }
        void shout()
        {
            printf("OOOOOOOOOOOO");
        }
    }
    
    int main()
    {
        Person *p = new Person("Scott",25);
        p->display();
        delete p;
    }

This example doesnt use smart pointers, so you have to remember to delete the poitner when you are done with it.

    foo()
    {
        SP p(new Person("Scott",25));
        p->Display();
    }

SP is a stack variable. When it goes out of scope, it's destructor is called.

    class SP
    {
      private:
        Person* pData;
      public:
          SP(Person* pValue): pData(pValue) {}
          ~SP()
          {
              delete pData;
          }
          Person& operator*()
          {
              return *pData;
          }
          Person* operator->()
          {
              return pData;
          }
    }

When SP goes out of scope, because it is a stack variable, it's destructor gets called. When that happens, the pointer it was given is deleted.

# Templates

We can generalize the smart pointer class using templates

    template <typename T> class SP
    {
        private:
            T* pData;
        public:
            SP(T* pValue): pData(pValue) {}
            ~SP() {delete pData;}
            T& operator*(){return *pData;}
            T* operator->(){return pData;}
    }
    
    foo()
    {
        SP<Person> p(new Person("Scott",25));
        p->display();
        
        SP<Circle> p(new Circle(...));
    }

Memory leaks solved, however, we still have the problem of the dangling pointers

## Dangling Pointers (part deux)

The SP template class solves memory leaks from forgetting to delete pointers, but not dangling pointers. For example

    foo()
    {
        SP<Person> p(new Person("Scott",25));
        p->display();
        
        // Some arbitrary inner scope
        {
            SP<Person> q=p; // Shallow copy, q and p point to the same person
            q->display();
        }
        
        p->display(); // the person pointed to by p was deleted
                      // p has a dangling pointer
    }

A reference counting utility class

    class RC
    {
        private:
            int count;
        public:
            void addRef() {count++;}
            void release() {return --count;}
    }
    
    template <typename T> class SP
    {
        private:
            T* pData;
            RC* reference;
            
        public:
            SP(): pData(0), reference(0)
            {
                reference = new RC(0);
                reference->addRef();
            }
            SP(T* pValue): pData(pValue), reference(0)
            {
                reference = new RC(0);
                reference->addRef();
            }
            SP(const SP<T>& sp): pData(sp.pData), reference(sp.reference)
            {
                reference->addRef();
            }
            ~SP()
            {
                if(reference->release() == 0)
                {
                    delete pData;
                    delete reference;
                }
            }
            
            T& operator*()
            {
                return *pData;
            }
            
            T* operator->()
            {
                return pData;
            }
            
            SP<T>& operator=(const SP<T>& sp)
            {
                if (this != &sp)
                {
                    if(reference->Release() == 0)
                    {
                        delete pData;
                        delete reference;
                    }
                    pData = sp.pData;
                    reference = sp.reference;
                    reference->addRef();   
                }
                return *this;
            }
    };

# Project additions

Online storage. There will be a server listening on port 200, we have to send the results of the game to that server.

How to anmiate, wxTimer and event, Event handler spawns a thread.
use valgrind or benchmarking to determine how much memory it's using and make sure we're not leaking memory or using more than the beaglebone has.



