# Aliens vs Predators vs Chuck Norris

This game is a simulation of a world where Aliens, Predators, Humans, and Chuck
Norris all exist.

## Actors

The Aliens and Predators are mutual enemies. They will attack each other if
they come near one another. In this case, the actor with the highest food score
wins. Also, if a Predator or Alien has a high enough food score and enough time
has passed, it can spawn a new Predator or Alien. On every tick of the game,
Predators and Aliens will loose food score.

In addition to feeding on each other, the Predators and the Aliens also feed on
Humans. Humans run around the map feeding on nothing. As such they have no food
score. Their main objective is to try and avoid the Aliens and the Predators.
If a Human survives long enough, it can spawn a new Human.

Finally, Chuck Norris. There is one Chuck Norris character in the game at
all times. Chuck Norris does not harm Humans, and also does not have a food
score. His purpose is to kill Predators and Aliens. He cannot die of
starvation, but he also cannot spawn additional Chuck Norri, as there is only
one Chuck Norris.

## The Killing Fields

This game takes place on earth. The earth is split into multiple two
dimensional areas. Due to the fighting between the Aliens and the Predators,
the earth is littered with debris. Debris will impede movement of all actors,
except Chuck Norris.

Also littering the playing field are black holes. Black holes will be generated
at the start of the game and placed randomly. If an actor is standing within a
certain radius of the black hole and the black hole acts, that actor will be
killed. Black holes affect all actors except Chuck Norris

There are also worm holes on each of the areas. Worm holes are generated in the
same manner as black holes. If an actor is standing next to a worm hole when
the worm hole activates, that actor will instantly travel to a random location.
This location is not limited to the same area the worm hole is on. The actor
can be transported anywhere in the game universe. This affects all actors,
including Chuck Norris

## User Interface

The user will be able to customize the size of the individual areas, as well as
the number of each type of actor to generate. Except, of course, Chuck Norris.
They will also be able to customize the speed at which the game runs. These
customizations will exist in a panel next to the game area itself. There will
also be a start and stop button on the control panel.
